Unit Number,Unit Title,Key Topics
Unit 1,Foundations of Algebra,"Variables, expressions, real numbers, properties of real numbers, distributive property, equations, and graphs."
Unit 2,Solving Equations,"Solving one-step, two-step, multi-step equations, equations with variables on both sides, literal equations, proportions, and percentages."
Unit 3,Solving Inequalities,"Inequalities and their graphs, solving inequalities using addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and multi-step inequalities, compound inequalities, absolute value equations and inequalities."
Unit 4,An Introduction to Functions,"Using graphs to relate two quantities, patterns and functions, graphing a function rule, formalizing relations and functions, arithmetic sequences."
Unit 5,Linear Functions,"Rate of change and slope, direct variation, slope-intercept form, point-slope form, standard form, parallel and perpendicular lines, scatter plots and trend lines, graphing absolute value functions."
Unit 6,Systems of Equations and Inequalities,"Solving systems by graphing, substitution, elimination, applications of linear systems, linear inequalities, systems of linear inequalities."
Unit 7,Exponents and Exponential Functions,"Zero and negative exponents, properties of exponents, rational exponents and radicals, exponential functions, growth and decay, geometric sequences."
Unit 8,Polynomials and Factoring,"Adding and subtracting polynomials, multiplying and factoring, special cases, factoring by grouping."
Unit 9,Quadratic Functions and Equations,"Quadratic graphs and properties, solving quadratic equations by factoring, completing the square, the quadratic formula, discriminant, models, systems of linear and quadratic equations."
Unit 10,Radical Expressions and Equations,"Pythagorean theorem, simplifying radicals, operations with radical expressions, solving radical equations, graphing square root functions, trigonometric ratios."
Unit 11,Rational Expressions and Functions,"Simplifying rational expressions, multiplying, dividing, adding, subtracting rational expressions, inverse variation, graphing rational functions."
Unit 12,Data Analysis and Probability,"Organizing data using matrices, frequency and histograms, measures of central tendency and dispersion, box-and-whisker plots, samples and surveys, permutations and combinations, probability."
