Unit Number,Unit Title,Key Topics
Unit 1,"Constructions, Proof, and Rigid Motion","Use properties of circles to construct geometric figures and introduce mathematical proof."
Unit 2,Congruence in Two Dimensions,"Establish congruence of polygons using rigid motions and develop criteria for triangle congruence."
Unit 3,Dilations and Similarity,"Explore dilations to establish similarity, and prove and use similarity criteria."
Unit 4,Right Triangles and Trigonometry,"Develop understanding of right triangles with an introduction to trigonometry and the Pythagorean theorem."
Unit 5,Polygons and Algebraic Relationships,"Connect algebra to geometry with polygons, exploring distance formulas, slopes, area, and perimeter."
Unit 6,Three-Dimensional Measurement and Application,"Extend understanding of circles, volume, and surface area into modeling and formula analysis."
Unit 7,Circles,"Expand knowledge of circles to establish relationships between angles, lines, and circle areas."
Unit 8,Probability,"Formalize understanding of probability, including compound probability and permutations and combinations."
Unit 9,Performing Transformations,"Introduction to Euclidean geometry and rigid transformations like translations, rotations, and reflections."
Unit 10,Transformation Properties and Proofs,"Overview of properties preserved under rigid transformations and proofs with transformations."
Unit 11,Congruence,"Use transformations to establish triangle congruence and work with properties of triangles and quadrilaterals."
Unit 12,Similarity,"Definitions and theorems involving similarity, solving similar triangle problems."
Unit 13,Right Triangles & Trigonometry,"Use trigonometric ratios in right triangles to solve for sides and angles, and apply the Pythagorean theorem."
Unit 14,Analytic Geometry,"Distance and midpoints, equations of lines, and classification of figures based on coordinates."
Unit 15,Conic Sections,"Introduction to conic sections, including circles, parabolas, and their equations."
Unit 16,Circles,"Arc measures, radians, sector areas, and properties and equations of circles."
Unit 17,Solid Geometry,"Volume and surface area of 3D objects, including prisms, cylinders, cones, and spheres."